# For Maternity
#### Video Demo: <URL>
#### Distinctiveness and Complexity
I have created a web-based application using Django called "ForMaternity". The aim of which is to provide pregnant women with information and guidence to help them get through pregnancy healthily. The app allows users to track their pregnancy(by indicating how far along they are by updating the weeks depending on the week of pregnancy they provided when they started to track the pregnacy on the app), users (those registered as pregnant) have access to perinatal health information including nutrion, pregnancy weight gain guidelines and are able to track their weight gain journey throughout pregnancy utilising the quidelines and a pregnancy weight gain calculator, in addition, they are able to request a consultation appointment with Dieticians and/or Counsellors (The app allows users to register as Perinatal Dieticians and Counsellors). The users registered as dieticians and counsellors have access to the requests pages for diet-consultation and counselling, respectfully. Another feature is for pregnant women, which includes a checklist of common prenatal tests categorised based on the trimester which they are performed. Thus this application is distinct from the other projects in this course, it is not an e-commerce as it doesn't involve the selling and buying of goods and services. It's clearly also not a social network as it is based on individualised and personal information of users and doesn't focus on large audience information sharing and social interations. Different users have different roles and permissions i.e Users registered as pregnant have access to the tracking pregnancy, weight, prenatal tests and requesting for consultations with counsellors and dieticians, users registered as dietician have access to a view all requests for consultation with dieticians and permission to accept and attend to the requests, while for users registered as counsellors, similar to dieticians, have access to a view all requests for consultation with counsellors and permission to accept and attend to the requests as well.
#### Description:
 The first page, Home or index page, renders the index html file which displays the general index information and buttons to register and login if a user is not loged in. If a user is logged in, the general index information is shown, without the login and register buttons) as well as a form to input current week of pregnancy if pregnant, when this form is submitted, the user will be registered as pregnant and the current date of submission is recorded so that the user's week of pregnancy can be automatically updated according to the dates (the index view adds 1 to the recorded week of pregnancy after one week of the date when the user submitted the form, then the date is updated and a week is added after a week of the new date, and so on, until 40 weeks). After the user as registered as pregnant, the index page also displays what week of pregnancy the user is on and how many weeks they have left. The second page, Health html file, includes information on nutrition during pregnancy which also provide a link to an external site, chooseMyplate, which provide advices on nutrition to people in different life stages(the link leads directly to the page for pregnant women on the site). The second item on the Health page is the Weight Management which includes pregnancy weight gain guidelines and a link to track weight, which when clicked on, a weight html file is rendered. The weight page displays a "pregnancy weight gain calculator" button that tates the user to an external site when clicked on, this tool helps pregnant users to determine their target total weight the should gain during pregnancy, depending on BMI. Once the user have the target total weight, they can use the form displayed on the weight page to track their weight gain progress. The form has three inputs fiels, for current weight(which must be provided on a regular basis everytime the user tracks their weight progress), the other two fiels are for Pre-pregnancy weight and the target total weight determined by the pregnancy weight gain calculator (these two field may only be submitted unless the user realises there is a need for rectification). When the weight information is provided, the weight page displays, on top, a comparison of the 'current weight gain of total target weight' progress to the percentage of how far along a user is with pregnancy. The system determines the difference between the two percentage values and, using Javascript, if the difference is less or equal to 10% then the user is alerted with a green flag and message that their weight gain progress is currently in a safe regime, else if the difference is greater than 15% then the user is alerted with a red flag and message that their weight gain progress is currently in an unsafe regime, the user is also alerted to be cautious with an orange flag and message if the difference is between 11% and 15%. At the bottom of this comparison, the date of the last time the user provided their current weight to track their current progress is displayed so that the user knows the results were generated on which date. The next aspect on the Health page is the perinatal mental health section which includes general information of mental health and pregnancy and a button that allows users to request for counselling consultation, when this button is clicked a request is lodged for the user and recorded that the user requested for counselling. After the request for the user is lodged, the button to request is replaced with a button to cancel the request. The last aspect of the Health page is the perinatal dieticians section which fuctions exactly as the perinatal mental health section except the requests are sent to dieticians instead of counsellors. Moving on to the third page, the Prenatal tests page, which renders the tests html file. The tests html file displays a list of common prenatal tests which are categorised based on the trimester in which they are performed. Next to each test is a "Done" button which changes to a check-mark button when clicked on and vice versa except when a "Done" button is clicked, the total numer of tests done is incremented by 1 and when the check-mark button is clicked, the total number of tests done is decremented by 1. Pregnant women can use this page as checklist and determine how many tests they've done out of the provided. The last page, the professionals html displays two sections, the first for Perinatal Dieticians and the other For Perinatal Mental Health Counsellors. The sections are similar and include two buttons each. One button allows for users to register as dieticians or counsellors, respectfully, while the other button allows reqistered dieticians or counsellos to view all submitted requests for consultations with dieticians or counsellors, respectfully. On both requests pages for dieticians(drequests html) or counsellors(crequests html), the requests display the users name and email address and next to each request, there is an "Accept request" button which dieticians/counsellors (respectfully) can click on indicating that they will attend to the request and the request will be removed for the user that lodged that particulr request.
