# Mental Health Friendly
#### Video Demo: <URL>
#### Description:
I have created a web-based application using flask that serves as a community for people dealing with mental health issues. The website allows for users to take psychological tests (which were obtained from an external website),it also allows for users to post and view stories addressing mental health issues, also users with acceptable background can volunteer as counsellors and requests for counselling are also lodged on the website. There are four webpages; the index/homepage, psychological tests, surviving and counselling. On the index page (index.html), the purpose of the website is briefed and there are two buttons, one to register and the other to login. If a user is logged in, the index page greets the user using their username and the register and login button are not displayed anymore, the remaining three pages (psychological tests, surviving and counselling) requires that a user is logged in to gain access to the pages. On the next page, psychological tests, links to ten psychological tests are included in the tests.html and users can follow these links to take the tests and see immediate results, particularly positive ones as they might indicate the users' potential psychological issues.The surviving page (surviving.html) has two sections, one for viewing stories and the other for posting. Starting with the posting section, a form is accessed by clicking on the "post your story" button which renders the storyform.html. The form requires the user to tick the psychological concerns from the list of checkboxes that the story will be addressing, the psychological concerns consists of the tests and additional concerns/symptoms as well as a field for other specific issues, then there is a field to detail the story and a "post" button. The second section of the surviving page is the viewing of stories which also users clicks the "view story" button and the stories.html file is rendered. On the left half of this page is a list of psychological concerns in a form of checkboxes, the purpose of this is for the user to tick the psychological concerns so that only stories addressing the ticked concerns are displayed for them, the user must tick one or more checkboxes and click "filter" button for this to apply. The stories are displayed with the psychological concerns the owner ticked when posting the story (in storyform.html) as a heading and the story in a paragraph thereafter. The last page is the counselling page (counselling.html), on this page you find a button to request counselling, another one to volunteer as a counsellor and the last one to view requests. The latter is only accessable to counsellors to view all counselling requests lodged on the website. Clicking the "request counselling" button either renders form.html or requested.html, the first file is rendered if the user has not submitted a request and requested.html is rendered if the user already submitted a request because each user is allowed one request at a time. The form.html is a form to collect information about the user and reasons for requesting counselling which after being submitted via button, renders the requested.html file. The requested.html indicates that the user has a live request and has two buttons, one to cancel the request and the other to view details about the submitted request. When the cancel request button is clicked, the user's request will be  deleted and when the view my request button is clicked, myrequest.html is rendered. The myrequest.html file consists of a table summarising the information submitting via the form.html. Moving on to the "volunteer as a counsellor" button, when clicked, either the volunteer.html or volunteered.html is rendered. The volunteered.html is rendered if the user is already a volunteer counsellor. The volunteer.html is also a form to collect information about the the volunteer and when it is submitted via the submit button the volunteered.html is rendered. The volunteered.html idecates that the user is a volunteer counsellor and has two buttons, one to withdraw volunteering and the other to view all requests for counselling. When the withdraw button is clicked, the users responsibility as a counsellor is withdrawn on the website. When the view requests button is clicked, requests.html file is rendered (which is only accessible to counsellors), this file consists of a table similar to the myrequest.html but list all users' requests. Next to each request, there is a button ("Accept requests") which counsellors can click on to assume counselling, once this is done the request is deleted 
